all right we're in the darkroom and
that's why it's called a darkroom
because it's dark which I know really
goes without saying but at any rate for
the purposes of getting this going
I'm going to show you what I'm going to
do and then I'm going to actually do it
and come back in just a second while I
print this I'm going to do a contact
print and what that means is taking a
single sheet of photo paper and this is
an old photo paper so I'm hoping it'll
be an okay and analog putting the
negatives on top of it printing it and
then developing it and going from there
and seeing which of my prints are going
to be the best because it's easier to
evaluate the positives and it is to
evaluate the negatives so with a
traditional contact print you want to
use a contact printer which is putting
weight on this to keep things flat this
is just evaluative so I'm going to do it
for thirty seconds which I should have
started counting so let's see damn
okay so 30 seconds was way too long I'm
doing this one for four let's see how
that works alright four seconds was
waiting too long so I'm going to try it
now again at four seconds but with the
enlarging lens stopped down to about f8
there we go that's better so we're back
and I've got the dark cloth down here
and what I'm going to do is this is one
of my test pieces of glass but I'll put
the six by six glass here I'll put the
negative and the negative carrier and
then I'll print the image I have to put
the emulsion on the glass first the
emulsions liquefying right now it's it's
still on acolytes like type bottle and
then what I'll do is I'll pour it in
here pour it on the glass and let it go
I figured out the photos I'm going to
print and what I did was I took the
plastic sheet and I marked a little mark
next to the negative on the plastic
sheet not on the negative obviously and
now I just have to take those out put
them in the negative carrier oops
go through the negative carrier and
we're good to go for our printing next
thing you're gonna see are gonna be some
finished results okay so this is one of
those very rare up early enough in the
morning to do one of these but so
printing these 7'o paulo types last
night took almost five hours in the
darkroom it was a very exhausting
evening and here are the finished
results and they vary wildly so there
are some interesting interesting flaws
and some of them I'll take of this one
right up here and some of them have the
the fixer did not completely fix the
emulsion in me rinse now I fixed these
for about ten minutes each
the Amol the wall
then which for some of these was half an
hour did not completely take off some of
the unfixed emulsion so a few of them
have some purple spots and then where
the emulsion was extra thick and then in
this one is also interesting because in
the wah and the wash even though it was
very gentle the emulsion tore now that
it's dry it's it's solid but the
emulsion tore during the washing process
this this was a test strip this was a
bad idea I just did a single bead down
the middle to try and conserve my
emulsion didn't work as a test strip I
couldn't tell what I was looking at
here's one that turned out fairly fairly
okay you can see that there's some of
the emulsion tearing and some of the
discoloration here but also there's a
lot of bubbles through it and the
bubbles were because I dropped the
emulsion bottle and it got shaken up in
that / in the drop and so a lot of
bubbles got into the emulsion and didn't
didn't come out of this as the emulsion
was setting before development so these
are the finished results they really
look really really good it's it's a
might not be translating exactly over
the film over the camera but they have a
nice warm tone to them there the image
is translucent you can almost see
through it but not quite and the the
finished result is really very very
attractive very homemade they clearly
look homemade and in that way somewhat
retro ish but by and large I'm pretty
happy with these results so if these
this video and this series of videos
about making a Paulo type was helpful to
you please give me a thumbs up that lets
me know I'm on the right track if you'd
like to subscribe please do so and
you'll know when I have more
for more videos that I release also if
you have any questions or comments
please leave those in the comments
section below and I'll respond to those
when I can I try to be pretty good about
that if you have any suggestions for
future videos please send those over if
I have the technical know-how and the
equipment I'm more than happy to make
those and the last thing thank you guys
for watching
you